Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a mystery, sci-fi,
thriller film called "Super 8."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 1979 at Lillian, Ohio, a tragic accident
in a steel mill costs the life of Elizabeth
Lamb, leaving her teenage son, Joe, with her
husband, Deputy Sheriff Jack.
Her co-worker, Louis Dainard, shows up at
the wake but is immediately thrown out by
an angry Jack.
Four months later, Joe and his friends, Charles,
Preston, Martin, and Cary, work on a zombie
movie to enter a Super 8 film competition.
Hoping to add emotional value to the plot,
Charles adds a new character to the movie:
the protagonist's wife.
When Joe returns home from Charle's house,
he finds his father mourning in the bathroom,
still unable to cope with their loss but refuses
to let his son see him in this state.
That evening, the two have dinner at a diner.
Disapproving Joe's interest in making movies,
Jack suggests for Joe to spend the summer
in a baseball camp instead.
Joe dislikes the idea but doesn't say so.
After dinner, Joe paints on his action figures
until Charles calls him.
The friends meet up with Louis's daughter,
Alice, who isn't happy to see Joe, fearing
that he'll tell his father about her driving
without a license.
After Joe promises that he won't snitch, Alice
agrees to drive the group to the train station.
Upon arriving at the station, Charles eagerly
gets everything started.
Preston and Cary set up the lights and effects,
Martin runs his lines with Charles, and Joe
puts makeup on Alice.
They film Martin portraying a detective investigating
a zombie virus and Alice playing his wife,
who's against him getting involved.
Alice's teary performance has the boys stunned
and speechless, even after she's finished.
A train horn sounds from afar, and the boys
frantically scatter to film a scene with the
passing train in the background.
The train's rumbling muffles their dialogue,
yet the extra effect excites Charles.
Joe looks back and spots a truck that turns
into the railway.
The truck crashes into the train, exploding
into a roaring fire.
The kids run away, dropping their camera that
continues filming.
The train's derailed cars block their path,
making the boys turn back, separated from
Alice.
Debris and flames fly everywhere, covering
the boys with soot as they run to escape the
wreck.
Train cars crash onto the station and fly
over their heads, with one blocking Joe's
path.
He sees it marked as explosives, giving him
little time to run for cover before it explodes.
Alone in the wreckage, Joe spots a train car
moving as if something large is inside.
He pulls out a silver necklace from his pocket,
clutching it in his shaky hands.
The door flies overhead, and he waits for
something to come out.
When nothing comes, he goes to look for his
friends.
The boys reunite, but Alice is nowhere in
sight.
Joe sees debris with blood on the side, and
the boys assume that it's Alice's.
But she appears behind them.
It turns out the blood was fake and came from
Joe's bag.
Among the wreckage, they find strange white
cubes spilling out from the containers.
Joe informs the rest about the truck that
purposefully collided on the train.
Inside the truck, they recognize the driver
as their biology teacher, Dr. Woodward.
In his hand is a map of the United States
with dates and times written on it.
Dr. Woodward takes the map back and reveals
a gun, scaring them.
He warns them not to speak about the event;
otherwise, they and their parents will be
killed.
The military gathers at the scene, alerting
them.
Dr. Woodward aims the gun at them, convincing
them to flee.
Alice heads straight for the car, but the
boys retrieve their equipment first before
getting in.
The soldiers arrive, missing the car that
drives off, unable to get the license plate.
All that's left of the kids' presence is empty
film boxes.
The boys panic in the car, distracting Alice
while she drives.
They all vow not to say anything about what
just happened.
After dropping them off in their homes, Alice
tells Joe that she regrets joining them before
leaving.
Late that evening, electrical posts malfunction
around the neighborhood.
The next day, Jack wakes up Joe as he prepares
for work.
While the two talk, the white cube that Joe
took from the wreckage moves on its own without
them noticing.
After Jack leaves, Joe heads to Charle's house,
finding his family in chaos at the breakfast
table.
He joins Charles by the T.V., watching the
news cover the train crash last night.
Both are still in disbelief at what they witnessed.
An idea sparks in Charles' mind when Joe comments
how the train crash looks like a disaster
movie.
His disbelief turns into excitement, wanting
to head back to the wreckage to film more
scenes.
After Charles gets his film developed, Joe
heads to Alice's house, hoping to convince
her to join them again.
Louis arrives, yelling for Joe to go away.
Before Joe leaves, Alice promises to join
them on the next filming.
Later that day, they shoot action scenes with
the train wreckage as their background.
Using the camera to get a closer look, Joe
recognizes the hooks on the train's cars,
realizing it as an Air Force train.
With this clue, plus the map that Woodward
had, Joe wonders if he drove into the train
tracks to destroy something.
Charles stops the conversation, reminding
them about Woodward's warning.
Back in the wreckage, the military set up
camp and retrieve the white cubes from the
train cars.
Jack demands Colonel Nelec for information,
but the colonel remains tightlipped about
the event.
Jack shares his suspicions with Sheriff Pruitt
at the police station, who dismisses his concerns,
thinking that he's simply on edge due to his
wife's recent death.
That evening, Sheriff Pruitt witnesses dogs
running away from something while loading
up his car at the gas station.
Suddenly, his car powers on while the gas
meter's bell ding wildly.
He hears something from the side of the store
and jumps when the dumpster zooms past him.
The police car outside shakes then the lights
flicker, alerting the clerk, Breen.
Breen finds the sheriff's car wrecked, but
the sheriff is nowhere around.
A mechanical clicking alerts him, and he attempts
to escape but is captured.
In Joe's house, Joe uses makeup to turn Alice
into a zombie for the next scene.
Charles and Cary ask if they can blow up Joe's
Air Force train model to add to their scene.
He reluctantly agrees.
The power fluctuates in the house, concerning
them as it had been happening around town
throughout the day.
Alice practices acting like a zombie on Joe
with Charles watching the two grow close.
In the gas station, Jack investigates the
chaos.
Recognizing the sheriff's gun, Jack puts an
A.P.B. on both Sheriff Pruitt and Breen.
More reports of strange occurrences circulate
the town, including car engines, generators,
and dogs going missing, including Joe's dog,
Lucy.
When Joe returns home, he finds Jack and other
police officers discussing the events.
Over-hearing that the military is investigating
tire tracks, Joe's heart sinks, realizing
that they're looking for them.
Outside, an electrician learns about the neighboring
towns' missing electrical wires.
While he's fixing an electrical post, a mysterious
mechanical sound comes from the nearby junkyard.
Metal objects fly around until an oven crashes
nearby.
He raises the lift to get a better look but
sees nothing in the vast night.
Under him, the lights start to flicker, and
the lift malfunctions.
Something roars from the dark and slams against
the lift.
The lift shifts to the side, with the electrician
nowhere in sight.
The next day at the town hall, the Lilian
residents complain about the power fluctuations
and stolen electrical items.
One theorizes that it's part of a Russian
invasion, opting for another man, Mr. McCandless,
to share about hearing military chatter from
his radio.
Jack pulls Mr. McCandless away from the crowd
to get more information.
Jack heads back to the police station, ordering
officers to gather radio and scanners to check
the frequency.
Louis interrupts him, warning him not to let
Joe near his house or his daughter again.
In Joe's house, he shows Alice his miniature
models after doing her zombie makeup.
Alice brings up the necklace he was holding
during the train crash, learning that it was
his late mother's.
Back in the station, Jack learns that the
missing dogs are found in various locations
out of town as if they were avoiding something.
The radios receive frequency from the Air
Force, where they learn about Operation Walking
Distance.
Soldiers clear out Woodward's house while
the group gathers outside to film a scene.
A police car approaches them, and Jack pulls
Joe away from his friends and retrieves his
camera, despite Charles' protests.
With Joe in the car, Jack walks to Nelec,
demanding information about Walking Distance.
Hearing this, Nelec agrees to talk in private
at another time.
Jack takes Joe home, warning him not to be
friends with Alice anymore.
Louis is a known troublemaker, yet Joe's mother
became friends with him, which Jack believes
was a mistake.
Joe defends Alice, refusing to listen to his
father.
Jack doesn't relent, however, insisting on
his rules before leaving to deal with the
military.
Scared and confused, Joe heads to the town
graveyard and sits by his mother's tomb until
dark, missing life when she was still around.
A rattling noise from a nearby garage catches
his attention.
He shines his flashlight on the windows, seeing
something moving inside.
Meanwhile, Jack heads to the airfield to see
Nelec, but he's put under arrest instead.
Inside the camp, Nelec interrogates Woodward
on what he knows and who filmed the crash
that night.
The two argue about the past, ending with
Woodward warning him that Woodward will also
be watching when Nelec sees "him" next.
Knowing that he won't say any further, Woodward
is euthanized.
That evening, Alice climbs into Joe's bedroom
window.
She advises him not to let Charles blow up
his train model for the movie, pointing out
how Charles bosses him around.
Alice admits that she cares about him and
doesn't want him to be pushed around.
Joe's projector suddenly powers on, signaling
that the electricity is back.
They watch a home video of Joe's mother from
when he was younger.
The images have him reminiscing about his
mother while Alice tears up, trying to keep
her feelings back.
Finally, Alice confesses that her father missed
his shift after getting drunk the day of the
accident, which forced Elizabeth to take over.
She breaks down, confessing that she sometimes
wished her father was the one who died instead.
The video ends, and a rattling brings their
attention to the white cube on his desk.
It moves on its own, humming as it does.
The cube zooms past them and out of the room,
creating a hole in the wall.
Alice sneaks back into her house, but Louis
is still awake, demanding where she's been.
He's drunk and smoking in the living room,
yelling for her to leave as her mother did.
In tears, Alice takes her bike and rides away.
Louis tries to catch up with her, regretting
his words to his daughter.
With his car behind her, Alice attempts to
lose him, but their chase ends with Louis
crashing the car.
Alice stops, worried about her father.
Something reaches down to her, and she screams.
Louis clambers out of the car to her rescue,
but Alice is nowhere to be found.
Meanwhile, the military uses flamethrowers
to burn down the field near the town.
Operation Walking Distance is now in effect.
The next day, Joe tells Charles about the
cube, but he wants nothing to do with it.
Charles is pissed that Joe refused to let
them blow up the train model upon Alice's
advice and that his dad took his film.
While they're arguing, Joe's missing cube
is stuck to the water tower nearby.
Making their way to Charles' house, Joe encourages
his friend that they can still finish the
movie.
Charles drops the act and admits to being
upset about Joe and Alice getting close.
It turns out Charles convinced Alice to be
part of his movie because he liked her.
While they're arguing, they play the reel
from the train station that accidentally recorded
part of the crash.
Charles starts to apologize about getting
upset when Joe notices something strange in
the film.
On the screen, a giant alien creature emerges
from the train.
A siren sounds all around the town.
People are evacuating due to a wildfire nearby
that may reach the town's chemical plant.
Joe and Charles join the evacuation, led by
the military.
As caravans exit the town, carrying the residents,
large red trucks drive into the town.
The residents are taken to the Greenville
Air Force Base, serving as the evacuation
center.
Charles reunites with his family, but Joe
can't find his father.
Instead, he finds the frightened Louis, telling
him that something took Alice, but no one
else believes him.
Joe plans to rescue Alice despite his friends'
insistence that it's dangerous.
They convince the camera shop worker, Donny,
to drive them back to town.
Meanwhile, Jack is kept in isolation.
He subdues a soldier and takes his uniform
to infiltrate the camp.
He blows up a truck for diversion and takes
one of the military jeeps to escape.
His jeep passes by Donny's car, where the
boys deduce that Woodward hid files about
the alien in the trailer behind the school
where he keeps confiscated items.
The night falls as the friends head to the
school and break into Woodward's trailer.
They head to the biology room, where they
play the films and read the documents from
his trailer.
Cary finds a cassette tape where Woodward
describes a subterranean creature that wants
to rebuild its ship, made out of the shape-shifting
cubes.
It's been trying to return home since 1958
but has been held captive and experimented
on by Nelec.
Its experiences on Earth taught it to see
humankind as the enemy, but the creature made
contact with Woodward, allowing him to understand
it.
Woodward attempted to free the creature but
was discharged from the project for doing
so.
His crash on the train was his last attempt
to free it.
Suddenly, soldiers barge in and take the boys
into custody.
Nelec confiscates Cary's explosives and Joe's
mother's necklace before sending them back
to the evacuation center.
When he spots the kids being taken into the
military bus, Donny attempts to call for police
backup.
Jack finds Deputy Rosko at the evacuation
center, informing him how the Air Force caused
the fire to evacuate the town.
Rosko interrupts him to report Joe and his
friends being taken from the school by military
personnel.
Jack confronts Preston, the only one who stayed
behind.
Upon Joe's instructions, Preston diverts his
attention to Charles' film to prove the alien's
existence.
Meanwhile, the boys sit at the back of the
bus, wondering what the military will do to
them.
Something crashes against the bus, throwing
it to the side until the vehicle stops.
They watch the soldiers take tracking guns
to tag the alien.
At Nelec's command, a soldier slowly steps
out but is ambushed by the alien.
The creature flips the bus to its side, disabling
the soldiers.
The boys frantically search for a way out
until Joe spots a broken window to climb through.
Joe climbs out, seeing the creature up close
as it digs through the bus.
The boys escape the scene, leaving Nelec cornered
by the alien.
Out of bullets, Nelec drops his gun and remembers
Woodward's dying words before the alien bites
him.
With the alien gone, Joe retrieves his necklace
while Cary gets his explosives back.
Donny arrives, confessing that he's stoned,
and allows Joe to drive instead.
The road is blocked by tanks that fire into
the darkness.
With the car trapped and Donny unconscious,
the boys leave him behind.
They run through the war zone, dodging explosions,
bullets, and armed men.
They hide in a neighbor's house, but an explosion
knocks them out.
With Martin's leg injured, Joe insists Charles
stay with him while Joe and Cary head for
the cemetery.
Joe and Cary reach the cemetery and break
down the garage door nearby, seeing a deep
pit inside.
Meanwhile, Jack takes Louis out of the evacuation
center to help find their children.
While driving, Louis says that he came to
Elizabeth's funeral to apologize for what
happened.
Jack stares down the road quietly but finally
admits that Elizabeth's death was an accident.
Back at the cemetery, Cary and Joe use sparkles
to climb down the hole and search for Alice.
They follow the sound of buzzing and find
a cave filled with the stolen electronics
and missing people.
Based on the tunnel systems they walked through,
Joe deduces that they're under the water tower.
The alien arrives, taking one of the captives
with it.
Finding Alice among the captives, Joe goes
to her while Cary prepares firecrackers to
distract the alien.
The firecrackers erupt, diverting the alien's
attention away.
Joe slaps her awake, telling her that Louis
was worried about her.
Alice hugs Joe, relieved to be rescued.
They wake up others as Alice explains, reading
the alien's thoughts when she was captured,
confirming that it just wants to go home.
Sheriff Pruitt leads them out of the tunnel
system, but the alien captures him.
The others run away but reach a dead-end,
cornered by the alien.
Mustering up courage, Joe confronts the alien,
telling it to go home.
The alien picks him up but doesn't hurt him.
Instead, it listens to Joe's encouragement,
saying that it can still live and return home
despite everything it experienced.
Something inside the tunnel powers on, alerting
the alien.
It sets Joe down and leaves.
Back in the town, metal objects are magnetized
into the water tower, including cars, guns,
and the rest of the white cubes from the train.
The items circle the water tower, forming
the alien's spaceship.
Louis and Jack arrive and reunite with their
children; any anger is overpowered by their
relief that Joe and Alice are okay.
The people watch the alien head inside the
spaceship and start it.
Elizabeth's necklace flies off from Joe's
pocket.
He grabs it in midair and stares at his mother's
photo from the locket.
With his father by his side, Joe decides to
let go of his mother, allowing the necklace
to join the spacecraft as it takes off.
The ship launches into the night as Alice
and Joe hold hands, watching the alien finally
free to return home.